API-1
API testing
APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) enable software systems and applications to communicate and share data.
API testing is important as vulnerabilities in APIs may undermine core aspects of a website's confidentiality, integrity,
and availability.

All dynamic websites are composed of APIs, so classic web vulnerabilities like SQL Injection could be classed as API testing. In this 
topic, we'll teach you how to test APIs that aren't fully used by the website front-end, with a focus on RESTful and JSON APIs.
We'll also teach you to test for server-side parameter pollution vulnerabilities that may internal APIs.
To illustrate the overlap between API testing and general web testing, we've created a mapping between our existing topics
and the OWASP API Security Top 10 2023.

Related pages
To learn more GraphQL APIs, see our GraphQL API vulnerabilities Academy topic.

API recon

To start API testing, you first need to find out as much information about the API as possible, to discover its attack surface.

To begin, you should identify API enspoints. These are locations where an API receives requests about a specific resource on its
server. For example, consider the following GET request:

GET /api/books HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com

The API endpoint for this request is api/books. This results in an interaction with the API to retrieve a list of books from
a library. Another API endpoint might be, for example,
/api/books/mystery, which would retrieve a list of mystery books.

Once you have identified the endpoints, you need to determine how to interact with them. This enables you to construct 
valid HTTP requests to test the API. For example, you should find out information about the following:

- The input data the API processes, including both compulsory and optional parameters.
- The type of requests the API accepts, including supported HTTP methods and media formats.
- Rate limits and authentication mechanisms.

API documentation

APIs are ususally documented so that developers know how to use and integrate with them.

Documentation can be in both  human-readable and machine-readable forms. Human-readable documentation is designed 
for developers to understand how to use the API. It may include detailed explanations, examples, and usage scenarious.
Machine-readable documentation is designed to be processed by software for automating tasks like API integration 
and validation. It's written in structured formats like JSON or XML.

API documentation is often publicly available, particularly if the API is intended for use by external developers.
If this is the case, always start your recon vy reviewing the documentation.

Discovering API documentation 
Even if API documentation isn't openly availably, you may still be able to access it by browsing applications
that use the API.

To do this, you can use Burp Scanner to crawl the API. You can also browse applications manually using Burp's browser.
Look for endpoints that may refer to API dosumentation, for example:

/api
/swagger/index.html
/openapi.json

If you identify and endpoint for a resource, make sure to investigate the base path. For example, if you identify the
resource endpoint api/swagger/v1/users/123, then you should investigate the following paths:
/api/swagger/v1
/api/swagger/
/api

You can also use a list of common paths to find documentation using intruder.

Using machine - readable dosumentation

You can use a range of automated tools to analyze any machine-readable API documentation that you find.

You can use Burp Scanner to crawl and audit OpenAPI documentation, or any other documentation in JSON or YAML format. You 
can also parse OpenAPI documentation using the OperAPI Parser BApp.

You may also be able to use a specialized tool to test the documented endpoints, such as Postman or SoupUI.

Indentifying API endpoints

You can also gather a lot of information by browsing applications that use the API. This is often woth doing even if 
you have access to API documentation, as sometimes documentation may be in accurate or out of date.

You can use Burp Scanner to crawl the application, then manually investigate interesting attack surface using Burp's browser.

While browsing the application, look for patterns that suggest API endpoints in the URL structure, such as /api/. Also look
out for JavaScript files. These can contain references to API endpoints that you haven't triggered directly via
web browser. Burp Scanner automatically extracts some endpoints during crawls, but for a more
